---
layout: post
title: "Spell checking should be part of your view tests"
date: 2012-02-25 21:16
comments: true
categories: [Rails,RSpec,Merimee]
---

So it all started when I asked a friend to test this new app I'm building :
"On your main page, *garantee*. You should really check your spelling, people will know you are French !".

So here I went, naively googling for "website spell checker", with either pricey reports or simple websites
where I'd have to copy-paste my text from all my pages. Then, I found [AfterTheDeadline](http://afterthedeadline.com/).
It looks great, open-source, recently bought by wordpress.com, and they even provide an API.

So, spent my evening doing stuff, and here we are with a new gem : [Merimee](https://rubygems.org/gems/merimee).
<!-- more -->
## What does it do ?

It gives you some rspec macros to test your views spelling, and fails your tests if it finds errors.

## Install

So here we are with our existing rails project. Installation is very easy :

``` ruby Gemfile
# :require => false is mandatory, or the gem may not hook properly into rspec
gem 'merimee', :group => :test, :require => false
```

``` ruby spec_helper.rb
Spork.prefork do
  #...
  require 'merimee'
end
```

``` ruby spec/views/splash/index.html_spec.rb
describe "splash/index" do
  it_should_have_a_correct_spelling
end
```

And voilà, your test should still be green, or fail if there's a spelling error :

```rbcon
Failures:

  1) splash/index should have a correct spelling
     Failure/Error: rendered.should have_a_correct_spelling
      [error : spelling - Spelling] garantee (suggested: guarantee)
      [error : spelling - Spelling] faq (suggested: far, fat, fan, fax, fad)
     # /Users/wam/Dev/merimee/lib/merimee/rspec/view_checker_helper.rb:27:in `block in it_should_have_a_correct_spelling'

Finished in 1.84 seconds
1 example, 1 failure
```

Have a look at the [readme](https://github.com/atwam/merimee) to see how you can configure the gem :
you can choose which errors make your test fail, and configure your own dictionary to ignore some
spelling errors.

## Warning

Since AtD server will reject your requests if they are too close from each other, the macro has a nasty `sleep 0.7` to make
sure it doesn't happen. If you find a better solution, send me a pull request. You may want to have these tests only run
in some test groups.

## Planned features ?

Oh, I have a few ideas : add a rake task with a full report, for all views, including both errors (spelling etc.) and warnings (grammar warnings
generated by AtD, like repetitions, double negations etc. 
I want to enable merimee in Test::Case as well, but I'm not so used to it.

Feel free to fork and send me your pull requests, or just point any issue you have.
